## 1. [Git and Github](1_get_started/readme.md) Reflection

Having talked to a couple developer friends briefly about git and GitHub before, I was excited to see that the concepts were included in the 'Get Started' section of week 1.  Thankfully, setting up both git and GitHub was fairly easy.  The only difficulty I ran into was when I tried to install version 1.9.  For whatever reason, after going through the installation process and then checking my version, I found that I was still on 1.7.4.  I figured 1.7 would suffice for now and I could get the latest version later, if necessary.  Instead of pressing that issue, I wanted to jump right in to the Git Immersion labs.

Git is a form of version control software (VCS).  It is a tool that allows you to easily store versions, or iterations, of your projects on your personal computer, and makes managing these versions simple.  The key difference between git and Github is that everything you do using git is stored offline and is local to your device.  Github is an online repository for your project iterations that can be accessed anywhere, and can be easily shared with collaborators.  When using git, you can connect with others through a network and share projects between your devices, but you run the risk of losing access when a partner goes offline.  The beauty of Github is that the projects are always available, regardless of whether all collaborators are present.  In addition to that, Github promotes sharing of projects and collaboration amongst users everywhere.

Version control is the practice of saving and managing snapshots (versions) of your projects as they evolve over time.  This is critical to developers because if one encounters a problem, instead of starting their project over they can instead just revisit an earlier version of their project and continue from there.  With version control, you can also work on multiple versions of a project in parallel - experimenting with and iterating on different code to see what works best.  Ultimately, you can choose to scrap the version that is the lesser of the two (or three, or four, etc..).  GitHub helps with version control because it makes it much easier to collaborate with another person, or a group of people, on the same projects.  You could be working on and managing changes to one set of code, while a partner of yours is working on another, and then the two of you can merge your code using GitHub, save that as a new version, and iterate on it again later.  Or, I can easily copy a repository of yours and start a new project with the code you've already written as the groundwork.  GitHub streamlines the process of 'pulling' and 'pushing' modified code, or 'commits' to a centralized hub for others to view and edit, which makes projects in which there are multiple contributers much easier to manage.  Also, I don't have to worry about you messing up my code, because you can save your iterations to your own repository, manage your own changes from there, and then merge with my code when necessary.  This is all possible because GitHub is online.

The fact that developers use version control makes perfect sense to me.  Teams of people building large projects together using thousands of lines of code saved across countless files can easily become cumbersome to manage without some sort of platform to asssist.  Version control is absolutely critical to the success of projects of this nature.  Without it, merging code, debugging, reusing code, referencing code, managing different ideas, etc.. would be a nightmare.  It ensures the safety of code for those using it.

I ended up doing labs 1-25 in Git Immersion.  I'm not sure if that was more than expected or not, but the exercises certainly helped familiarize myself with the basics of git.  Conceptually, most everything makes sense to me, but in practice it was a bit more difficult.  Particularly the ideas presented in lab 23 - working directly with Git objects.  I think I just need to get more used to using tree and parent hashes, and why those would be useful in a real world setting.  I was also a bit confused with the idea of creating commits that aren't attached to any branches, and why one might do this knowing that if they switch to a new branch the commits will be erased.  Is it entirely experimental, or are there other underlying reasons?  One other item was the concept of HEAD - is it just meant to designate the top most commit on a branch? Other than that though, I think I'm getting it.  There's a lot to remember in terms of commands, but I think that will come with time.  I'm looking forward to working with git / GitHub more frequently!
